OK.
OK, we're rolling. OK, I am very unknowledgeable about collectors, so some of the questions I'm going to ask you are pretty basic. All right, that's fine. I assume many of your listeners will be the same. Right,
exactly. OK, the first question is a pretty obvious one. Just can you just briefly tell me how you got started as a collector? Well, I guess we have to go back quite a ways. got interested in science fiction in high
school, as many people do, and once I started finding that, hey, out there in the big world, they have newsstands that sell books, why I bought everything that I could get my hands on for many, many years, and I really got
started as a serious collector, however. I have my wife to thank for that, and she sort of wishes she hadn't said it sometimes, I think, because she's I was telling her about the books that I'd read when I was in high
school, which happened to be a series of hardcover, juvenile science fiction books published by the Winston Company, and how I'd been in love with those things, and read them several times, and had fondled them a lot,
and so on. And she says, oh, there are used book dealers. They could probably find copies of those, and you could buy them. And I hadn't even considered that. In the past, I'd only bought what I'd found at Newsstands. And
so when the time came, and I started sending these lists to all the dealers, well, they had all these other fantastic books also. And it's sort of a mushroom from there. OK, good. Could you tell me what kinds of things you
concentrate on collecting? Well, I once gave a talk on this subject, and I titled it The Complete Science Fiction Collector, Confessions of a Pack Rat. In other words, I'm very, very versatile and Catholic in my
taste. I don't like all kinds of things as much equally, but I collect anything that's published in the science fiction and fantasy vein, I get my hands on, and then I can afford, which means almost, I've got copies of
almost every book that's been published. Okay, now I'm not sure I still understand that. I'm not sure if there's a term for this, but like, I'm talking about categories like paperbacks, pulps, hardbacks, things of
that sort. I started out with paperbacks and the Digest magazines. I've gone back in terms of picking up the old pulp magazines to the point where now I have almost all of them that were ever published, starting back
with Weird Tales in 1923 and Amazing Stories in 1926. I'm very proud of my complete collection of weird tales, since I understand there's only about 30 copies of so many systems. And just about as good on astounding
science fiction, for example. Recently, I have been branching out into hardbacks also, but I'm a long, long ways from completing that. What about just plain old paperbacks? Well, I have about $14,000, $15,000. Is
that enough for you? Yeah, do you try to pick up all of those or do you just take certain times? There's always a problem in making the, where do you draw the line? But I basically get everything that's clearly science
fiction, everything that's clearly fantasy. I kind of draw the line someplace in the horror vein to one side and maybe fairy tales on the other side. And sometimes I'll draw the line at, you know, an atom bomb story
that's set in the near future or something like that. But basically, I get every paper bag in science fiction and fantasy. In multiple editions, I might say. Every time a new cover comes out, why I'll buy the new
edition. OK. Now, this question is really going to show my ignorance, but how do you accumulate your books? Do you go about it by coal methodical planning and go right to the publisher? Do you just search around
bookstores? How do you go about that? No, I buy most of mine these days. used. I'll buy some, I'll buy the ones I like better, um, new so that I have a mint copy on paperbacks especially, but an awful lot of them I buy, I buy
them used if they're fairly recent just in the local bookstores. Lubbock is blessed with about seven or eight so I make the rounds on a regular basis, just pick up whatever I happen to come across. Sooner or later I find
most everything in the recent things. And on older things I go through mail order dealers. Okay, then I assume, and I know through Bill, that there are publications and so forth. I mean, how do you know how much is coming
out? Do you have some kind of checklist? The best source, by far, is the news magazine of science fiction called Locust. And science fiction chronicle also has these sort of things. They attempt to list every book that
comes out in the field. In fact, they're even wider in their categories. than I am, and they include academic type books and things like that, too. And every month they will list everything that's come out by every
publisher. Most of the publishers send them copies, and the ones that don't, they still will write down there that they know this book exists, but they haven't seen a copy. They also give many reviews on many of them.
And I assume for the, I call it pulse, I'm not sure what the term is. I assume for those, you just have subscriptions. There are no pulp magazines been published since 1955 or so. They sort of went the way of the dinosaurs.
But their successors are the Digest-sized magazines, as well as such large oversized ones as Omni
and Twilight Zone currently. And so I buy those on the newsstands every month. Okay, have you ever run across any valuable fines or little nuggets just by accident as browsing around? Not as many as I would like.
Occasionally I do. I pick up quite a few, you know, moderately rare things. Say, for example, for half a cover price at a used bookstore. But that's getting to be more and more rare as the collectors have got all the
valuable things grabbed up. Most of them I have to pay more or less market value. Actually, one other source I didn't mention for many of my books, because I buy so many, I'll actually buy a person's entire collection
just to get the books that I especially want, if there's some older, rarer ones among them. I assume then you have a complete set of the Ace Doubles? Actually, I'm still missing one that's been rather elusive, but other
than that, I have all the Ace Doubles, yeah. Is that D13? I have a D13. Yes, I do. I was very lucky to get that before the prices started escalating as much as they have. And I got it from one of the major dealers and I paid what
now is three or four years later would seem to be a real steal. Okay, what about traveling? Do you ever travel just to make collecting trips? No, I combine collecting trips with whenever I happen to be traveling. I
remember one time, not too long ago, we visited relatives in Madison, Wisconsin, and I had to mail all the books back because there wasn't room in the rabbit for the family in the box. And my wife said, no way are we going
to sit in here with several boxes of books. But I don't make deliberate trips just to buy things.
Are you a reader and a fan of science fiction first and then a collector, or are you in the field principally for collecting? Yeah, people keep asking me that. How much of this stuff do you read? Well, the answer is as much
as I have time for, which in my rather busy schedule is between 50 and 70 books a year, I estimate. And I'll probably add 1,000 to the collection in a year, so I certainly don't read a very big percentage. But I pick and
choose among what I've got Since I have less hardbacks and since they cost more in general, I feel some sort of a semi obligation to try to read something if I bought a hardback.
Okay, I'm sure you're asked this question from people who know that you're a collector. Just from the psychological point of view, why do you collect? because it's there. That's actually, I suppose, a difficult
question for anyone to answer. First of all, you have to love books or whatever you're collecting. I mean, this is the collector's mania. There's lots of people that collect anything from Matt's books to old Avon
bottles for heaven's sakes. And I collect what I enjoy from other standpoints. I enjoy the artwork on them. I enjoy reading the things. I like to read at least the representative book by any author that's important in
the field, and so on. And I just love books. I love to handle them. I love to sort them, catalog them, put them away, just look at them. And that's what I do with a fair portion of my spare time, I
guess. There's one more aspect of this. Once you really get the collecting bug, and that is, the completest attitude. That is, for example, you decide you want to collect something. I don't care what it is, but let's
say it's the Ace Double. You use that as an example. A lot of people have gone after them, for example, but the prices are growing up. But once you decide you want to get the Ace Double, you don't care which ones are good
ones and which ones are bad ones in terms of the story. All you're concerned about is getting a copy of every one. And that same thing goes especially for people that collect the magazines, because there it's pretty
obvious whether you've got them all because they're all nicely laid out by months.
I think you sort of halfway answered this one a minute ago. If you think, if you would just repeat yourself, go ahead and tell me and I won't ask this, but I asked you, why do you collect? Why science fiction books? Why not
something else like Mysteries or Westerns or Seashells or something? Because I love science fiction. Something we haven't gotten into the conversation yet is I hear at Texas Tech I also am involved in helping the
team teach the course in science fiction. We have a special course through our honors program and there are three or four of us every semester. Team teach this thing to a small group and we try to teach them principles
about writing also, so the creative writing course, very much a discussion course and so on. I just love science fiction. I don't mind reading an occasional mystery, let's say. I haven't read it Western in 20 years,
but I've read lots of science fiction. That's what I like to read. That's what I like to collect. Also, I might say that many of the older science fiction books are more valuable to collectors in general than many of
those in other fields, say Comparable Age and Publisher. Okay, you also sort of answered this one a minute ago too, but let me ask you, let's say with the books that you've collected sometime, say your collection of
Weird Tales or something, what do you do with those books? You take them out and read them or handle them or what? I handle them to the extent of cataloging them. I have a very extensive catalog system as you might guess.
I'll look at them occasionally. On the Weird Tales, especially in a few things like this, I have people that I correspond with other collectors and so on. And some of them who can't afford to spend several hundred
dollars for some of the early issues, let's say, and might want to read some story that's never been reproduced or something like that, I'll actually make a photocopy of it for them, for my expenses and time. That's one
thing I do with some of them. Okay, and you must be fairly knowledgeable about other collectors and the sources and so forth. Are there people who collect the science fiction books simply because it's, oh, I don't
know, because it's just something to collect. You know, maybe you're not fans. You don't care anything about science fiction. Maybe as an investment, let's say. Yeah. My advice to somebody who wants to do that is,
You've got to know a heck of a lot about this field before you're likely to be very successful at it, going about it from that standpoint.
Just because something as old as it necessarily means that it's especially valuable and what's real, it would be really difficult from the investor standpoint from somebody who knew very little about the field is to
know which books to pick up now because 10 years from now they're going to be worth a lot. In fact, that's kind of hard for me to guess. I'm sure they know more about it than a lot of people do. You're not in it for the
investment, are you? No, I'm not. I'm thinking about comic book collectors, especially. There's a heck of a lot of people in that field. While many of the most fanatical ones clearly love comic books, there are people
that see this fantastic way that the prices go up on those things and want to buy them just as an investment. In fact, the paperback books are kind of getting in that category to an extent because they are publishing
price guides for them now, and they haven't done that until very recently. In your particular line of collecting, what is considered the ultimate? The ultimate. I mean, I'd say the rarest item I've got is my Vol. 1 No. 1
Weird Tales.
But there are... Well, it depends on what you're talking about. For example, here's an example a lot of people would know about. Frank Herbert's Dune, hard cover of the first edition, is worth a great deal of money,
simply because Dune wasn't that well known when it first came out, didn't attract that much attention until slowly over several years, and that first hard cover edition is extremely hard to find. So that in good
condition, I understand that The first edition worth a thousand bucks. Well, I don't have a copy of it. I wouldn't mind having a copy at all, but although I wouldn't pay that money for it. But I know somebody who found one
in the garage sale in Lubbock and bugged the heck out of me. It wasn't me.
How much can a really valuable single paperback cost? Well, I could tell you the highest price I've heard anybody charge for anything. And that was—and I don't know if they got it—this was the asking price. It was $175
for, out in the Canary House, by Kirk Vonnegut. And that book, which is his only collection of short stories and which are all unabashedly science fiction, he vows he'll never allow reprinted as long as he lives. And
there aren't all that many copies available, so the price of that thing has been really escalating. I got my copy for $3, I don't mind telling you. What's the most you've paid for a paperback? I think about 20. And I don't
do that for very many, I assure you. By the way, this isn't a formal question, but do you happen to have a paperback copy of the Hillman edition of the Dying Earth, the first paperback? No, as a matter of fact, that's
another one that I could have mentioned that's in that pretty good category. And Jack Vance, in general, is a very collectible person. I've got everything that's relatively accessible, but I don't have something
like that. I do have a spur card back, by the way. Vandals with a void. A lot of people wouldn't mind having that. One thing that I wonder about with paperback and digest collectors like yourself, seems to me that
paperbacks don't last a long time. How do you store and preserve them for the future? That's a very good question. But first of all, they're going to deteriorate no matter what you do. You can slow it down. Here in
Lubbock, I've got myself down a basement, and the temperature stays fairly constant, and the humidity is relatively low, and it's not too far from ideal book storage conditions just automatically. The rare things,
especially, I do put in plastic bags. I also have access to, my wife is a librarian up at Texas Tech and so I have access to her, she's actually the one who does the book repairs among other things and all the prepping of
books and sort of things. So I have access to her facilities for repairing things. If I have a copy, say the glue is coming out, I can re-glue it with good grade library glue and I've gotten pretty good at making repairs
that are fairly unnoticeable. And I can make a pretty beat-up looking copy look halfway decent. That's a lot better to have one that you don't have to do that. And if I had a really rare one, I would simply put it in the bag
and not touch it anymore and hope it won't crumble. I suppose for something you're buying that's an older copy, no matter what it is, that the value is mostly dependent on the condition it's in. The condition is
extremely important, yes. You can have a rare book that's in perfect condition and expects to pay anywhere from two to ten times as much as a poorer copy. Because many of the real serious collectors are conditioned
freaks. They won't accept one unless it's just in pretty darn nice shape. And something that's been, you know, read and passed around and survived through several to the used bookstore certainly isn't in that
condition. You pretty much have to get one that was a one-owner book.
Okay, what, do you have any particular goals at this time, rather than just keep, you know, adding on the new books that are coming out? Is there any particular thing you're aiming at? Not really, which is one reason
too, why, you know, the fact that I don't have vans is dying north just to take as an example. Sure, I would like to get a copy, and hopefully I'll run across, be in the right place at the right time one day. But I'm not
pursuing it fanatically. If I really said I got to have that book no matter what, and I'm willing to pay the price and write to every dealer in the country that I can find the name for, somebody would come up with a copy.
Sure. But since I so widespread, anything I don't get at any particular time, I assume, well, it's a fair chance I'll get it later. And certainly I have the Dying Earth in umpteen other editions. take that as an example.
I've read it, you know, so it would be nice to have that first edition. There's an awful lot of things that I don't have, even then, and I'll never have everything, so what the heck? Is there any particular item that you
especially covet? I
don't really know. There's I could make a short list of a dozen that would be highest priority in terms of this is what I pay the most money for. Some of Philip Jose Farmer's rarest books, the advanced ones, these guys are
both highly collectible anyway, and there'll be a few others. Would you sell your collection or any portion of it for a high enough price? Probably not now. I do know somebody who retired and took around the world trip
on selling his.
Where would the greatest collections of science fiction material of your type in existence be? Oh, that's easy. Forest J. Ackerman was sort of a number one fan. He's a pretty old man now, but he has been active in the
field for I don't know, well over fifty years, and he has repeatedly bought everything, including all kinds of knick-knacks and toys and first edition paintings and just literally over a hundred thousand pieces, I
understand, which is all in a, he's donated it to, gee, I forgot one, one of the California cities, San Francisco, I think. But anyway, and anyway, it is, reputed to be by far the most fantastic collection that's ever
been put together. By the way, there are some libraries now, academic type libraries, and others who have extremely good collections of science fiction. Within Texas, for example, A&M has a special collection that
I don't think has as many pieces, but probably has more value than the collection. I know they have a complete set of weird tales, for example. Yeah, we managed to talk to a Forest Actorman, interviewed him in person at
all the Denvention too a couple years ago. So I think I knew the answer to that before I asked you. Right, that's all right. Not everybody listening to you well. Yeah. Is there any kind of, I don't know, association group
publications, et cetera, that go along with the collecting business? Not that I know of specifically for science fiction. There have been several little amateur publications with titles like Paperback
Quarterly, for example, that have to do with collecting paperbacks exclusively. Mostly what you have is, well, there are various kinds of guides, of course, and indexes. But other than that, you just get catalogs
from dealers and start looking around. Would you have any advice for a beginner, somebody who loves science fiction but had not collected anything, who wanted to start? Okay, probably what most people will do when
they start is they will pick a favorite author or author and try to get all the books by that person. Somebody with a limited budget just starting thinks, you know, that's a pretty good first step to say, for example, get
every book a copy of some edition of every book that Robert A. Heinle has written, or Andre Norton, or you name it, whoever the person happens to like. Once they do that, and if they start getting the collecting bug, then
pretty soon they'll want to trade in those later printings for first editions. And then if they've really gotten into it, they'll want to trade in those first-beat-up first editions for better first copies of the
first editions when they do it, and they'll probably start expanding into other authors. Or some people will do it in terms of, say, for example, a specific publisher trying to get everything. Or in the case of the
magazines, as I say that, Easy. They might start with, let's say, astounding analog or a magazine of fantasy and science fiction or something like that or amazing stories, whatever. And maybe branch out as much as
their time, money, and explanations allow them to. If you decided, I understand from Bill that you'd also sell a little bit. If you decided to do that as a living, is it possible to make a living off of it? not without one
heck of a lot of time and effort. Yeah, I basically, and what I'm doing is selling off duplicates that I wind up with, either from buying people's collections or from, if I find a really rare book, even if I have it, I'll
pick it up if it's cheap. And also, you know, when I buy a full collection, there'll be lots of duplicates in there. Or I just buy something just to upgrade my copy, because I did, there was many years there when I wasn't
rusty about condition and getting more and more so myself, and so I'm still weeding out beat-up copies and putting better copies in places. But it's a part-time on-the-side type thing I do send out. I have a small list
of people that are on a mailing list that get an occasional catalog I put out, or some people send me one list, and if I have duplicates, I'll tell them, hey, I got this, and be able to sell it to cheaper people. Okay, I just
have a couple more, John. Let's see, how should I put this one? Like, what's going to happen in the future? You know, I assume you're going to be collecting for most of the rest of your life and so forth. What do you think is
going to happen to your collection? Do you have any plans or is it just? I'll tell you one thing. I'd hate to think about moving. But other than that, my wife has talked about that. briefly a little bit once in a while. I
would expect, you know, if something unexpected happens, sometime after retirement they'll probably be interested in selling off at least most of it. But that's a long way down the road. She said, donate it to some
library. Well, if she's left with the decision, she does what she wants. But I would want to recoup some of the things, some of what we got into it. Okay, I think you answered this one a little earlier partially, but let
me, as I wind down, just do one more try at it. What part of your collection are you say you're the most proud of? My pulp magazines, I think, is sort of my own favorite among all the things. You know, people come in to the
house, visitors that know nothing about science fiction, and I always trot them downstairs and show them the collection. Kind of funny to watch somebody, you hand them one of those old pulp magazines, give them one
that isn't crumbling too badly, and then they start looking at all the old ads from the 30s or whatever. It's kind of a history lesson just to go through the things, if they don't know the stories or care about that
especially, why they find the ads more fascinating than anything. But I started out in the terms of series collecting with the magazines and the pulp especially. Those early ones especially are, there just aren't
very many copies around and so that's kind of my favorite part of the collection.
What kind of reactions do you get from people when they first get to know you and find out that you collect like this? Do they think you're pretty weird? Most of them are at least polite.
It's fairly well known around here because a couple of years ago, the wire services got a hold of it, and I was interviewed, and there were write-ups and papers all over the state, and I just learned the other day there
was actually one in Lincoln, Nebraska, and I don't know where else, as well as I appeared on local television and a few other things. So I don't make any big secret about it, at least. So some people know of my reputation.
Oh, you mean you're the guy with all those books? Is there any way for you to tell how you, I'm not sure how to put this, how you rank or how your collection stacks up against some of the other collectors around the country?
Not really. I do, I have corresponded with a fair amount of collectors and I know if I think about it I could probably put together a dozen names or so of ones who probably have at least comparable size collections.
Except possibly for some in some libraries, I doubt there are very many that are bigger. I have no real way to know that, because I don't go to conventions around the country and things like that. So I need some of these
people by letter, but I don't know. At least not very many of them do that one thing I do of collecting multiple editions of the same book. Yeah. This is another one that's sort of off the record. I'm a Lord of the Rings bug,
you know, Tolkien fan, and I recently found a set of the Ace Lord of the Rings books and paperback. Are they worth much? Depending on condition, I think that the market price for a nice copy is probably in the range of ten
bucks. Ten bucks each? Yeah, I'm not sure. I haven't really seen anybody list one very recently. It could be more that's what I paid ten bucks each and they were in good condition What that was pretty good pretty good
estimate on your part, okay?
Well listen John is there I'm not like I said, I'm not sure I don't know a great deal about collecting so Well, I was wondering is there any area or anything or you'd like to say or stuff that I'm missing I Or I think we've
pretty much covered the waterfront as far as I can tell. Yeah, I would say so. We do have some things in common. I'm a teacher here at Odessa College. I teach English. But David and I do team teacher science fiction class.
Oh, yeah. Right. That's right. So maybe sometime in the future I might give back to you. We could just talk, do a show or two on just teaching science fiction, something like that. Oh, OK. Our own approach is probably
semi-smake. At least it isn't like any um, that I've seen syllabus on syllabi, whatever it is. Yeah. Um, well, John, it's about all I can think of. Uh, we obviously will send you the tapes when the shows are edited. Oh,
okay. Great. Uh, David, is there anything you want to ask me? I think I covered pretty much collecting a series or something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Hey, John. Yeah. Uh, do you know, uh, this is off the record too. You know,
anybody who's got a copy of Zalazny's Guns of Avalon, first edition hardcover? No, I don't. Not in hardcover. Yeah. I understand that. It's pretty hard to get a hold of. It's not that it's not near as hard as nine
princes. Oh, OK, I got the wrong one then. Oh, I see. I don't have anything except the book club edition. So OK. I'm just starting into hardbacks, really. And I don't have all that much that's rare. And I certainly don't
have duplicate copies. OK, well listen, John, we appreciate your time. Maybe some of these days I'll get to meet you if we come to some local convention up there or something. Right. Well, hopefully we'll have a
convention here again next year. Yeah. OK, thank you very much, then, John. We'll get these tapes to you as soon as they're done. OK, great. Goodbye. Bye-bye.